### Dot-com and e-commerce
<p> E-commerce business evolutions : Amazon launched in 1995, initially as an online bookstore. During that time, large brick-and-mortar bookstores could only be expected to carry about 200,000 books at most. However, as an online store, Amazon had no such limitations. It could carry countless titles, from best sellers to obscure texts. Since its founding, Amazon has expanded to the point that it now offers virtually every type of product imaginable – including eBooks and movies. Amazon also pioneered the sharing of user reviews, an idea that was originally considered eCommerce suicide. Of course, the exact opposite happened. By letting customers share their feedback, Amazon became one of the most powerful companies in the world seemingly overnight. Meanwhile, eBay emerged as a successful online auction website, debuting in 1995. In 2005, Etsy launched as a global marketplace where people could create shops to sell their unique and often handmade items. During that same year, Amazon launched Amazon Prime, a service that offered members free two-day shipping within the continental United States. This program set a standard in eCommerce, forcing other merchants to decrease shipping time and charges. PayPal launched in 1998 as a global eCommerce company that offered payment processing for online vendors and other commercial users. PayPal customers can hold, send, and receive funds in many different currencies. In 2004, the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council was created to make sure that businesses comply with security requirements. This organization develops and implements security standards for account data protection. As mobile computing began to develop and grow, Amazon launched its first mobile website in 2001, starting the mobile eCommerce race. Because more people were using their mobile devices to access eCommerce websites, the push to make mobile sales possible was strong. Consumers today use mobile devices not only for purchases but also for product research, to find coupons, and to engage via social media.</p>
<p> Dot-com bubble: On January 31, 1999, two dot-com companies had purchased ad spots for Super Bowl XXXIII; that number increased to 17 the next year. Around the turn of the millennium, spending on technology was volatile as companies prepared for the Year 2000 problem. There were concerns that computer systems would have trouble changing their clock and calendar systems from 1999 to 2000 which might trigger wider social or economic problems, but there was virtually no impact or disruption due to adequate preparation. </p>
<p> On January 10, 2000, America Online, led by Steve Case and Ted Leonsis, announced a merger with Time Warner, led by Gerald M. Levin. The merger was the largest to date and was questioned by many analysts. On January 30, 2000, almost 20 percent (12 ads) of the 61 ads for Super Bowl XXXIV were purchased by dot-coms (however this estimate ranges from 12 to 19 companies depending on the source and the context in which the term "dot-com" company implies). At that time, the cost for a 30-second commercial cost between $1.9 million and $2.2 million. On March 15, 2000, Yahoo! and eBay ended merger talks and the Nasdaq fell 2.6%, but the S&P 500 rose 2.4% as investors shifted from strong performing technology stocks to poor performing established stocks.</p>
#### People Power
<p> People Power : The code for Napster, a music sharing service, was finished in June 1999.  Shawn Fanning, the founder, gave the code to some of his friends, telling them not to pass it out, but they did, and within a week, about 10,000 people had downloaded Napster.</p>
<p> By October 1999, Napster was taking up about 75 – 80% of the available bandwidth of US universities, and had more than 1 million downloads, making it the fastest spreading software Howard King and Peter Paterno, LA Entertainment lawyers, set out to warn music artists that Napster posed a clear and present danger to their careers On May 3, 2000, a member of the band Metallica arrived at Napster headquarters to ask that 300,000 users with Metallica songs to be banned from Napster Hillary Rosen and the RIAA filed a lawsuit for copyright, forcing Napster to be shut down in July 2001, This led to Steve Jobs, founder and CEO of Apple, to come out with iTunes, where users could download songs for $0.99, with strict copy protection, Viacom launched a $1 billion suit against YouTube for copyright issues, Google acquired YouTube at the end of 2006, so shutting down YouTube is not as easy as shutting down Napster, At this point, a new era of the Internet was being born, where users create their own content, and share and sell it,	Social networking was born in the wake of the dot com crash, Web 2.0 is about setting communication free, and users can share their thoughts with other users; in a sense, the web belongs to the people </p>
